README.md, before:

# OpenXDAGPool
This software allows you to easily open a Dagger (XDAG) pool with a nice, comfortable UI available to your users.

# Features
- detailed pool and network statistics, including graphs (hashrate, active miners, difficulty, found blocks, ...)
- address balance checker tool
- detailed payouts (exportable) for any pool miner
- list of found blocks by the pool
- leaderboard
- detailed guides on how to set-up miners
- rich administration interface allowing to customise many aspects of the website and view admin-related information
- independent of 3rd party services (all data is exported / queried on local pool software)
- secure, with clean code and expandability in mind
- optional registration allows users to manage their miners in one place
- hashrate history for registered miners
- miner offline / miner back online e-mail alerts for registered users
- administrator e-mail alerts: zero pool hashrate, abnormal pool daemon state and reference miner offline
- ability to e-mail active or all pool registered users with important message
- pool status and diagnostic information exports on URLs `/status` (JSON) and `/status/human-readable` (text file) - updated every minute

# Planned features
- ability to approximate earnings based on hashrate
- mobile friendly design tweaks
- translations and languages support, support for a simple CMS (setup pages, other pool documents and similar)
- code refactoring, use repository and presenters for models, other improvements
- add the ability to customise website design a bit, for example by allowing to upload a `favicon.ico`, or change bulma theme as a whole

# Expected skills
In order to run the pool you should be fluent in Unix / Linux administration and have basic understanding of computer programming.

# Pull requests
Please submit your pull requests with new features, improvements and / or bugfixes. Utilize the GitHub issue tracker if necessary. Please note that in order to develop the pool,
good Laravel 5, webpack, mix, blade, sass, javascript and bulma experience is needed. All pull requests must have reasonable code quality and security.

# Dependencies
- pool version at least 0.2.1
- nginx, php7+, mariadb or mysql, nodejs 8.x

# How the pool website works
The pool website periodically fetches required data from the pool daemon-side script. These scripts are in a [separate repository](https://github.com/XDagger/openxdagpool-scripts).
This data is stored locally and then processed.

Processed results are most often stored in a database. The pool re-reads imported data files whenever necessary.

This means the pool website is totally independent of the pool itself. Should the pool daemon-side become unavailable, the pool website would just endlessly display the latest obtained information
from the pool daemon.

# Installation
This giude expects that the pool software with required scripts ([openxdagpool-scripts](https://github.com/XDagger/openxdagpool-scripts)) is up and running, either on website server or on a different server.
This installation guide gives an overview on how to get the pool website up and running. It can't go in-depth on every step, however all important details are provided.

Perform the following steps in order to get the website up and running:
1. set your system timezone to `UTC`, execute `dpkg-reconfigure tzdata` and choose `UTC`
2. install all PHP7.0 requirements, for Ubuntu 16.04, use `apt-get install php7.0-bcmath php7.0-cli php7.0-common php7.0-fpm php7.0-json php7.0-mbstring php7.0-mcrypt php7.0-mysql php7.0-opcache php7.0-readline php7.0-sqlite3 php7.0-xml php7.0-zip autoconf libtool nasm`. Next configure `php.ini` to your preference. Set `memory_limit` to at least `256M`, `expose_php` to `Off`, set `error_reporting` to `E_ALL`.
3. install mysql 5.7 or mariadb. Create new database, for example `openxdagpool`, with `CREATE DATABASE openxdagpool CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;` run as mysql's `root` user. Grant all privileges to a new user: `GRANT ALL ON openxdagpool.* TO openxdagpool@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'PWD!!!!';`. Choose your own password!
4. install nginx and set up a PHP FPM pool running as user of your choice.
5. configure nginx to properly execute this website
6. install [composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/) and [nodejs 8.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions)
7. clone this project into `/var/www/openxdagpool`. Proceed as `www-data` or other user that the PHP FPM pool runs as
8. `cp .env.example .env`
9. edit `.env` and set up correct values, read the comments for help. Mail settings are required for e-mail alerts to work properly. Make sure to set `APP_DEBUG` to `false` for production usage.
10. in `/var/www/openxdagpool`, run `composer install`
11. run `php artisan key:generate`
12. run `php artisan migrate`
13. run `npm install` and then `npm run production`
14. run `php artisan data:live` and `php artisan data:fast`, make sure these commands completed successfully. Then run `php artisan pool:cron`.
15. install a letsencrypt certificate or other https certificate (optional)
16. visit the web site, and register. First registered user is an administrator.
17. visit the administration interface to set up your pool settings.
18. payouts exports of large datasets require the mysql files privilege. Edit `/etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf` and in the `[mysqld]` section, add `secure-file-priv=/var/www/openxdagpool/public/payouts/`. Then execute `GRANT FILE ON *.* TO openxdagpool@'%';` as mysql's `root` user. Restart the mysql daemon using `service mysql restart` as `root`. Execute `chmod 777 /var/www/openxdagpool/public/payouts/` as `root`.
19. as the PHP FPM pool user, execute `crontab -e` and enter one cron line: `* * * * * php /var/www/openxdagpool/artisan schedule:run >> /dev/null 2>&1`

Done! Enjoy your new OpenXDAGPool instance! ;-)

Commit message:

send email alerts, admin alerts, admin mass e-mail from queue, updated readme

README.md, after:

# OpenXDAGPool
This software allows you to easily open a Dagger (XDAG) pool with a nice, comfortable UI available to your users.

# Features
- detailed pool and network statistics, including graphs (hashrate, active miners, difficulty, found blocks, ...)
- address balance checker tool
- detailed payouts (exportable) for any pool miner
- list of found blocks by the pool
- leaderboard
- detailed guides on how to set-up miners
- rich administration interface allowing to customise many aspects of the website and view admin-related information
- independent of 3rd party services (all data is exported / queried on local pool software)
- secure, with clean code and expandability in mind
- optional registration allows users to manage their miners in one place
- hashrate history for registered miners
- miner offline / miner back online e-mail alerts for registered users
- administrator e-mail alerts: zero pool hashrate, abnormal pool daemon state and reference miner offline
- ability to e-mail active or all pool registered users with important message
- pool status and diagnostic information exports on URLs `/status` (JSON) and `/status/human-readable` (text file) - updated every minute

# Planned features
- ability to approximate earnings based on hashrate
- mobile friendly design tweaks
- translations and languages support, support for a simple CMS (setup pages, other pool documents and similar)
- code refactoring, use repository and presenters for models, other improvements
- add the ability to customise website design a bit, for example by allowing to upload a `favicon.ico`, or change bulma theme as a whole

# Expected skills
In order to run the pool you should be fluent in Unix / Linux administration and have basic understanding of computer programming.

# Pull requests
Please submit your pull requests with new features, improvements and / or bugfixes. Utilize the GitHub issue tracker if necessary. Please note that in order to develop the pool,
good Laravel 5, webpack, mix, blade, sass, javascript and bulma experience is needed. All pull requests must have reasonable code quality and security.

# Dependencies
- pool version at least 0.2.1
- nginx, php7+, mariadb or mysql, nodejs 8.x

# How the pool website works
The pool website periodically fetches required data from the pool daemon-side script. These scripts are in a [separate repository](https://github.com/XDagger/openxdagpool-scripts).
This data is stored locally and then processed.

Processed results are most often stored in a database. The pool re-reads imported data files whenever necessary.

This means the pool website is totally independent of the pool itself. Should the pool daemon-side become unavailable, the pool website would just endlessly display the latest obtained information
from the pool daemon.

# Installation
This giude expects that the pool software with required scripts ([openxdagpool-scripts](https://github.com/XDagger/openxdagpool-scripts)) is up and running, either on website server or on a different server.
This installation guide gives an overview on how to get the pool website up and running. It can't go in-depth on every step, however all important details are provided.

Perform the following steps in order to get the website up and running:
1. set your system timezone to `UTC`, execute `dpkg-reconfigure tzdata` and choose `UTC`
2. install all PHP7.0 requirements, for Ubuntu 16.04, use `apt-get install php7.0-bcmath php7.0-cli php7.0-common php7.0-fpm php7.0-json php7.0-mbstring php7.0-mcrypt php7.0-mysql php7.0-opcache php7.0-readline php7.0-sqlite3 php7.0-xml php7.0-zip autoconf libtool nasm supervisor`. Next configure `php.ini` to your preference. Set `memory_limit` to at least `256M`, `expose_php` to `Off`, set `error_reporting` to `E_ALL`.
3. install mysql 5.7 or mariadb. Create new database, for example `openxdagpool`, with `CREATE DATABASE openxdagpool CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;` run as mysql's `root` user. Grant all privileges to a new user: `GRANT ALL ON openxdagpool.* TO openxdagpool@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'PWD!!!!';`. Choose your own password!
4. install nginx and set up a PHP FPM pool running as user of your choice.
5. configure nginx to properly execute this website
6. install [composer](https://getcomposer.org/download/) and [nodejs 8.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions)
7. clone this project into `/var/www/openxdagpool`. Proceed as `www-data` or other user that the PHP FPM pool runs as
8. `cp .env.example .env`
9. edit `.env` and set up correct values, read the comments for help. Mail settings are required for e-mail alerts to work properly. Make sure to set `APP_DEBUG` to `false` for production usage.
10. in `/var/www/openxdagpool`, run `composer install`
11. run `php artisan key:generate`
12. run `php artisan migrate`
13. run `npm install` and then `npm run production`
14. run `php artisan data:live` and `php artisan data:fast`, make sure these commands completed successfully. Then run `php artisan pool:cron`.
15. install a letsencrypt certificate or other https certificate (optional)
16. visit the web site, and register. First registered user is an administrator.
17. visit the administration interface to set up your pool settings.
18. payouts exports of large datasets require the mysql files privilege. Edit `/etc/mysql/mysql.conf.d/mysqld.cnf` and in the `[mysqld]` section, add `secure-file-priv=/var/www/openxdagpool/public/payouts/`. Then execute `GRANT FILE ON *.* TO openxdagpool@'%';` as mysql's `root` user. Restart the mysql daemon using `service mysql restart` as `root`. Execute `chmod 777 /var/www/openxdagpool/public/payouts/` as `root`.
19. as the PHP FPM pool user, execute `crontab -e` and enter one cron line: `* * * * * php /var/www/openxdagpool/artisan schedule:run >> /dev/null 2>&1`
20. execute as `root`, replacing the `user` with the same user the PHP FPM pool runs as:
```
cat << 'EOD' > /etc/supervisor/conf.d/laravel-worker.conf
[program:laravel-worker]
process_name=%(program_name)s_%(process_num)02d
command=php /var/www/openxdagpool/artisan queue:work --sleep=3 --tries=3
autostart=true
autorestart=true
user=!!!! REPLACE with the same user as the PHP FPM pool runs as !!!
numprocs=1
redirect_stderr=true
stdout_logfile=/var/www/openxdagpool/storage/logs/worker.log
EOD
```
21. execute as `root`: `supervisorctl start laravel-worker:*`

Done! Enjoy your new OpenXDAGPool instance! ;-)

# Updates
Whenever you update the code using `git pull`, observe changed files. If `.env.example` changed, observe the changes and modify your `.env` file appropriately.
If any file in the `database/migrations` folder changed, you need to run `php artisan migrate`. When any file under `resources/assets` changed, you need to
run `npm run production`. After every `git pull`, run `supervisorctl restart laravel-worker:*` as `root`. If you change your `.env` file even without
updating the application, don't forget to run `supervisorctl restart laravel-worker:*` as `root` for the changes to take place in your queue as well.
